Inherited imperfection
—we don’t like it, but we all have it.
And since imperfection means
that everyone is less than perfect,
we are bound to be treated unfairly at times,
even by fellow Christians.
In rare cases, one might become
the victim of slander
or even fraud.
Consider with me an account about slander
that occurred in the nation of Israel
in the days of King David.
It’s about a man named Mephibosheth
who was slandered by a man named Ziba.
Examining the way
that Mephibosheth handled this matter
can be of real help to us to sow peace
and to reap peace.
Jonathan was Mephibosheth’s father,
and King Saul was his grandfather.
When Jonathan and Saul died,
King David gave to Mephibosheth
all the land of his grandfather.
David assigned Ziba as a servant
to take care of the land
that he had given to Mephibosheth.
Sometime later, a rebellion
in David’s household
forced him to flee from Jerusalem,
and Ziba went out to meet David.
When David asked Ziba about Mephibosheth
and why he didn’t come with Ziba
to show his support for David,
Ziba slandered Mephibosheth,
saying that he was seeking the kingship
for himself.
Sad to say, David believed the slander
and gave Mephibosheth’s land to Ziba.
Sometime later, Mephibosheth
met with King David
and explained why he didn’t show up
to travel with him.
He told David that Ziba had lied about him.
Upon hearing
Mephibosheth’s side of the story,
David now decided
that he and Ziba should share the land.
Instead of complaining or seeking vengeance,
Mephibosheth displayed
the spiritual qualities of a peacemaker,
and he was willing to be wronged.
He said to David, as recorded
at 2 Samuel chapter 19
and verse 30,
these words:
“At this Mephibosheth said to the king:
“‘Let him take it all,
“‘now that my lord the king
has come to his house in peace.’”
Yes, Mephibosheth was more concerned
about David’s kingship
than he was about himself.
In the following dramatization,
notice how a brother reacts
to a perceived injustice
and thereafter
how he sows peace with his brothers.
The first time we met David,
we were in chains!
I’d seen a lot of things
during my time as a guard,
but nothing like the peace that you all had.
Prison chains may be strong,
but we all had something much stronger.
But we had to work for that peace.
Right, Phil?
That’s right.
See, there was a misunderstanding
that got blown all out of proportion.
And I didn’t handle it the best.
The more I tried to defend myself,
the worse it became.
Brothers, there must be some mistake.
This isn’t true.
You know me!
I wasn’t prepared
for how far it would go.
There’s one more announcement.
Brother Philip Kim
is no longer serving as an elder.
Well, that brings our meeting to a close.
Now we can stand.
The next few months were a real struggle.
But when more details came to light,
I thought I’d be reappointed,
but I wasn’t.
Phil!
I couldn’t understand why.
Phil, come on . . .
I felt bitterness growing inside.
Phil, you know . . .
Everything became about me
—how I felt, what I deserved.
It was like a fog that stopped me
from seeing what Jehovah deserved,
and I really needed his help.
I found comfort
in accounts of Jehovah’s servants
who were either misunderstood or misjudged
but maintained their loyalty to Him.
They helped me realize that it’s a privilege
just to be in Jehovah’s organization.
Being at peace with my brothers
was more important
than any appointed position.
Without peace, I don’t know
how we could’ve managed what was to come.
Is your arthritis bad today?
Then I’ll be your secretary
just like Baruch was to Jeremiah.
I don’t know what I’d do without you.
The question now for all of us is,
How can we imitate the example
of Mephibosheth?
First of all, if you are the victim
of minor gossip or rude treatment by someone,
why not choose to let it pass
and not make a big issue of it?
Isn’t that what 1 Peter 4:8 advises?
First Peter 4:8 reads:
“Above all things,
have intense love for one another.”
And then it tells us what our love can do.
It says:
“Because love covers a multitude of sins.”
Yes, love covers sins and imperfections
if we are willing
to let love have its way.
But what if you are the victim
of a more serious injustice?
For example, the brother in the video
felt that he was a victim of injustice
when he was deleted as an elder.
He tried to clarify matters,
but since he didn’t get the response
he was hoping for,
he became very upset.
He lost his peace, and he caused others
to lose their peaceful relationship with him.
To regain his peace,
the brother dug into the Scriptures,
looking for examples he could benefit from.
And he prayerfully looked to Jehovah
to help him.
He could see the importance of self-control
and being guided by God’s spirit.
As a result, he was able
to be at peace with himself
and sow peace with his brothers.
Now, think for a moment
about the unfair decision David made
when he told Mephibosheth
that he and Ziba were to share the land.
Ziba was the cause of the problem,
not Mephibosheth.
However, Mephibosheth
displayed the qualities of a spiritual man
by not looking out for his own interests,
by being patient,
and by not seeking vengeance.
Read with me
at 2 Samuel chapter 19,
verse 25 through verse 28
—2 Samuel 19:25-28; it reads:
“When he came to Jerusalem
“[that is, Mephibosheth went to Jerusalem]
“to meet the king,
“the king said to him: ‘Why did you not go
with me, Mephibosheth?’
“To this he said:
“‘My lord the king, my servant tricked me.
“‘For your servant had said,
“‘“Let me get my donkey saddled
“‘so that I may ride on it
and go with the king,”
“‘for your servant is crippled.
“‘But he slandered your servant
to my lord the king.
“‘However, my lord the king
is like an angel of the true God,
“‘so do whatever seems good to you.
“‘All the household of my father
“‘could have been doomed to death
by my lord the king,
“‘and yet you placed your servant
among those eating at your table.
“‘So what right do I have
to cry out further to the king?’”
It’s truly remarkable.
Mephibosheth was grateful for what he had,
and he was seeking nothing more.
He enjoyed peace of mind and heart.
If a matter involving slander
or fraud arises today,
a Christian may choose to follow
Jesus’ instructions
at Matthew 18:15-17.
However, if for some reason,
following that procedure
does not fully resolve the matter,
he or she may choose to pursue it no further
and suffer a loss
rather than disturb the peace
of the congregation.
We can leave any unresolved issues
with Jehovah,
knowing that he sees what we do
and what others do,
and he will carry out justice
at the right time.
For our own benefit,
we really must try to let go of resentment.
When we do, we benefit ourselves.
When we forgive, we forgive others
and Jehovah forgives us.
Now, that doesn’t mean
that we minimize or excuse
the wrong conduct of fellow believers.
No.
But it does mean that we imitate Mephibosheth
by letting go of resentment
and pursuing peace.
We draw closer to Jehovah
by following the advice at Psalm 55:22:
“Throw your burden on Jehovah,
“and he will sustain you.
Never will he allow
the righteous one to fall.”
And as Romans 15:13 assures us,
Jehovah will “fill you with all joy and peace
by your trusting in him.”
Brother Joel Dellinger,
a helper to the Service Committee,
will now consider
the next talk of this symposium,
“How They Sowed and Reaped Peace
—Paul and Barnabas.”